these are the first animals to be born
at al-adel and the first that will be
brought up in the wild
now that the boss seemed
well-established it's time for Hugh to
organize the next stage of the project
we're definitely going ahead with an
import of help on September the 15th
just kind of bring a bowline and two
young females so that's pretty exciting
the rewilding will happen here no doubt
about that it's just the timing of us
establishing this big reserve because
the complexities of doing it probably
escape Paula little Paul has overlooked
a fundamental issue
and the eyes of the law a fancy renters
reserved would change the nature of the
Allendale project
Wien Scottish Natural Heritage are
limited and interested in wildlife when
it's in the wild when you put a big
fence around an area technically and
legally it's not then in the wild and I
think the development here at Allendale
would need then to be covered by the zoo
legislation as I understand it there
would be issues about animal welfare the
survival and well-being of individual
animals as part of what happens inside
this enclosed area ala deal is huge but
if it's classed as a zoo it would then
be illegal to put a predator and its
prey in the same enclosed space and this
would completely undermine Paul's grand
plan
if the Highlands are to be properly
restored he thinks it's vital for all
the animals to live together
it's the wolves that will keep the Red
Deer away from the valley bottom is
where the rivers are where we need we
need vegetation on the riverbanks we
don't have that anymore like there it's
important spawning grounds for the
salmon you know for the whole cycle of
life it's very important to have as many
the creatures back that were once here
although this is encouraged by EU
legislation national laws are
threatening to stop his ambitious
rewilding scheme in its tracks there's a
clash of legislation here article 22 of
the UUC habitats directive encourages
people to go through species and habitat
restoration and that means that you have
an ambition to get wolves and beer and
links back into Scotland and the zoo Act
basically prevents that happening by
saying that you cannot have predator and
prey in the same enclosure which
basically flies in their face of us or
through portal we have managed to
surround ourselves in so much red tape
with regard to things that you can and
cannot do we're not a zoo
we're not along Lee we're not a private
collection of animals
what are we well we are a wilderness
reserve we are like a nature reserve
with a fence around it
so there isn't a box first